Welcome to the Data Science Hangout. Hope everyone's having a great week. I'm Rachel.
I lead our pro community at Posit. And if this is your first time joining us here, special
welcome to you. This is our open space to chat about data science leadership, questions
you're facing and getting to hear about what's going on in the world of data across many
different industries. And so we're here every, I say every single Thursday, there have been
some Thursdays where we haven't been here for holidays or something, but same time,
same place. So if you're watching this on YouTube, into the future, if you want to join
us live, you can use the link in the details to add it to your calendar and join the party
with us. But together, we're all dedicated to making this a welcoming environment for
everyone. And we love hearing from you all no matter your level of experience or area
of work. So it's totally okay to just listen in if you want. But if you want to jump in
and ask questions or provide your own perspective on certain topics, there's a few ways that
you can do that. So you can raise your hand here on Zoom. And if you're not sure how to
do that, it's in the controls down below. But you can also put questions into the Zoom
chat and feel free to put a little star next to it if you wanted me to read it out loud
instead if you're in a coffee shop or something. And then lastly, we have a Slido link where
you can ask questions anonymously too. And our team should share that in the chat here
in just a second. If not, let me know and I can share it. But I'm so excited to have
Catherine joining me as our co-host today. Catherine Girton is Manager of Data Analytics
and Reporting at CENTEEN. And Catherine, I'd love to kick things off with having you
introduce yourself and share a little bit about your role and also something you like to do
outside of work. Yeah. Hi, I'm Catherine Girton. As Rachel said, I'm the Manager of Data Analytics
and Reporting at CENTEEN. In that role, I actually support our health insurance,
Affordable Care Act marketplace products, supporting the risk adjustment mandate.
That's part of that work. I put it in my bio, but when I am not working, I play volleyball
and I do a lot of sewing. So I've been working on, that's kind of what I got better at during
the pandemic was I decided I'm going to get actually good at sewing more than a rectangle
and started making my own clothes. So that is what I do. I see we've got somebody else in the
chat who's also working in risk adjustment. So that's nice. I didn't want to get too into the
weeds on what that actually is, but I'm more than happy to fill that in for anyone who doesn't know.
I also have to ask you, what's one of your favorite things that you've sewed?
I was really proud actually of a pair of jeans that I made that I embroidered with like
outlines of different fruit. So that's amazing. They don't currently fit, so they're not getting
a lot of use, but they were really great when I made them. So we'll see if they get
a little bit more wear here in the future. I would not know how to even start with making
jeans. That's amazing. Well, Catherine, I know something that we had talked a little bit about
and it was shared in advance of the Hangout was about the power of embedded teams for kind of
bridging the gap between a lot of cool data science the team's doing and then meaningful
business insights. And I thought it might be helpful to just understand a little bit about
the data analytics team structure at Centene and what that looks like. Yeah. So we have,
it's kind of a hybrid between your traditional centralized team and your embedded teams
within your business areas. So we have a Centene Technologies corporate IT
kind of data science, data analytics, where they support a lot of the tech stack,
but also facilitate conversations with business teams that may not have their own analysts. They
help gather requirements, build some of those models. And then we also have teams like the one
that I'm a part of within the actuarial department where we are a data science team. We are involved
in gathering the requirements, building the tools to support that business process, and then
interfacing with the centralized teams that do control and maintain the tech stack for us. So
that's really what we look like. And I would say like, I'm super grateful to be a part of that
because not having to know how computers work or how software is built and installed and maintained
and all that is like great for me. I've tried to learn it. It's not something I really like
understand easily, and it frees me up to not have to really dig into that. I can spend my mental
energy focusing on, okay, these are the data science problems. Also, my cat is here. These
are the data science problems that are facing my business unit and can really dig into those
problems. Okay, we're going to have to introduce your cat too. Okay, that's Timber. We got her from
the street. So cute. Yes, and my dog is around here somewhere. Yeah, he's over there snoozing.
He might make an appearance too. Awesome. Well, I know you said you weren't thinking about giving
an overview about risk adjustments, but while we're here and Libby asked it, so why don't we?
Why don't we? Yeah, so when the Affordable Care Act was put into place in about 2015,
one of the things that was mandated there is insurance companies can no longer deny people
coverage for pre-existing conditions. So it doesn't matter what conditions you have. You
have to get insurance. You can't discriminate based on rates for those conditions that someone
has. So one of the things that is in place in order to ensure that that happens is what's
called risk adjustment. And so throughout the year, all health insurance companies submit their
claims data and their diagnosis data for their entire populations to these government-maintained
servers. And then you get credit for the risk. So members have certain conditions that counts them
as risky or not risky. There's a bunch of interaction factors and a whole lot of math
involved in calculating how much risk a member has. And so then at the end of the year is when
the risk adjustment takes place. So insurers who insure a riskier population actually get
transfer dollars from the insurers who insure a less risky population. So it's entirely budget
neutral. There's no government money involved in changing hands. They facilitate that transfer
between those insurers but not anything else. So if one insurer insures a bunch of like elderly
people with multiple comorbidities and one insurer insures a bunch of healthy college students, the
one who insures a bunch of healthy college students is going to owe money to that other insurer at the
end of the year. Just to say like we're covering more risk than you are. And then there's the
process. So I have a sister team who's involved in the risk adjustment and I am in charge of the
audit of the risk adjustment. So once you've submitted all of this data, the government
takes a representative sample of your population and comes back to you and say prove it. Prove that
these members have the conditions that you say that they have. So we have to go and collect
medical records, talk to doctors, code all of those records, and then recalculate the risk and prove
that the population distribution is as risky as we said it was throughout the year.
Interesting. Yeah, as Libby said in the chat, that sounds like a huge data project.
What are some of the projects that you work on and analytics that come after that?
So there's a huge part of this that's actually competitive intelligence analytics where you
know because it is budget neutral and there's transfers between different insurers, you know
how risky your own population is. But you don't really know a lot about the other insurer's
population. So there's a lot of data gathering, data aggregation around that relative risk
analytics. And then we also have a bunch of analytics involved with predicting which
conditions are going to be easy to validate, which ones are going to be more difficult, what
pieces of information might we need to gather in the aspect of conducting this audit in order to
validate these conditions. So that's all the like post-hoc analytics. And then we also have a lot
of prospective analytics around identifying members that we think may have conditions that
they haven't seen their doctor for yet this year and closing those care gaps.
This is reminding me of when Rebecca Hoddy joined us as well and her cat was front and center for
the hangout. Yeah, she of course as soon as I joined the call decided that she needed immediate
attention. That's how it goes. Yeah, so that's like the overview of risk adjustment. And then
some of the high-level work. We're also involved since we are embedded in the actuarial department.
There's a lot of financial predictions and analytics involved with forecasting and reserving
and all of that kind of stuff that comes off of the data that you're gathering,
but then is involved with licensed actuaries and that kind of business side of the work.
Thank you. I see Libby, you had a follow-up question on the audits. You want to jump in?
Yeah, I was just wondering if there's a really busy time of year for you. Like I know I've done
audits and I have worked with audit teams in different areas and there's always like this
really busy month or week out of the quarter. Yeah, so we kicked off the audit last week. That was
incredibly busy. There's a lot of vendor data handoffs where we have to gather that
information, pass it to back to the government, back to other vendors who help us with certain
aspects of the audit. And then there's usually a pretty busy season about two months before the
audit closes when you're trying to aggregate all the information that you've gathered
so that you can submit it and then also do some of those financial forecasts.
Nice. So do you have, oh sorry, I have a follow-up. Do you have like this period where there is a
little bit less stuff to do and you're able to start to like work on problems that would make
it easier for further audits? Yeah, so we have, my team's been building a lot of shiny apps and a lot
of dashboards that we've been deploying onto our Posit Connect suite that track kind of like how
the audit is going, where there might be points of intervention, if there's something that's like,
hey we're not doing it as well as this, as we were last year, flagging that, sending emails,
a lot of that. We've also made some data portals where some of our internal partners, where they
might need something in a specific format like an Excel file or a CSV so they can do some
additional work with it, where they can like upload data or download our results in a way that makes
it really accessible for them to continue doing their work, but in more of a self-service way so
it's not like an email to us and then we have to like manually create some sort of, or even just
manually run in our script, it's like part of that dashboarding. So we're actually kind of shifting
into that for this audit now, like maintaining what we've done in the past, updating it with some
with some new tools, with some new shiny development, as well as just, there's always
lessons learned from last year, like oh we weren't tracking that but we really should have been
and so we're tracking it this year. I'd love to learn more about that Shiny app too. So
you mentioned people can download the data as well, is that people who typically would want
to be working with like Excel data or what are they? Yeah, so that's people who would want to be
working with Excel data or we have, so I sit at Centene Corporate, but we also have subsidiary
health plans and so certain, I have access to all of our health plan data, but not everyone who
supports the audit execution at the lower levels does. So when they go in, they can just see like
the California data or just see certain like pre-filtered sets of it that's really kind of tied
to their their login credentials, all that kind of stuff. So that again, yeah, I don't have to be
like okay, who's asking for this? What health plan do they support? Filtering it on my end,
we were able to build those things tied to their internal login credentials and then they can just
do it. That's great. So a question we used to ask in the beginning of the Hangouts and I don't know
what happened where we stopped asking this, but I'm curious, like what's something, if you look
to the year ahead, what's something that you're really excited about for your team?
We have been working really hard on turning some okay statistical models into some machine
learning models where we can bring in some different data types and get a little bit more
insight out of that. So we have a couple different models that are in the works around estimating
final validation rates for these audits or estimating some of those like statewide
competitive intelligence variables. And where it's something that we've done in the past on
like an ad hoc basis with different, you know, hand-grabbing different Excel files and things
like that. So we've been working really hard to kind of bake that into our data science ecosystem
where it runs on our database queries and it gathers things like that. And we're currently
in the stage of like figuring out how to deploy those so that people can access the results.
Again, the theme of a lot of the work that we're doing is not like purely self-service, but like
mostly self-service where somebody who wants this can get it and knows how to get it.
How do you market those applications out across the organization?
So we have, for those applications, we're not really targeting whole organization reach. We
have a couple specific partners during audit execution that we really target with those
where they've, you know, they'll ask us for an ad hoc thing and that's fine. But if we,
you know, get those same requests more than twice really, it's okay, let's put it together here.
It's going to run every week. It's going to come straight to your inbox. And again,
and everyone's like, oh, this is great. We haven't really had a lot of pushback with those
internal teams on like, well, no, I really need you to walk me through this Excel file or things
like that where, and that's definitely something I'm grateful for because it's not something that
happens everywhere where the partners that I work with are fully on board to receive automatic like
HTML markdowns in their inbox. I see there is some conversation in the chat going on about
Shiny frameworks. And I think Bill, you maybe had the initial question here. I don't know if
you're able to unmute Bill. But Bill asked, are you using any specific Shiny frameworks like Gollum?
No, we've actually had a lot of success with like BS4-, kind of those interactive like tabular
kind of things. So no really in-depth Shiny frameworks, a lot of interactivity and a lot of
tabs and click through. But yeah, nothing super high level Shiny,
more of just that facilitating that interaction.
Yeah. And I see people are talking about both like Rhino and Gollum as well. Alexis,
I wasn't sure if you wanted to share any thoughts on this too. I see you commenting in the chat.
Yeah, actually I've been trying Rhino has been a little bit more oriented towards
more oriented towards software development. And I think a balance between Gollum and for people
that are just starting. And if you want to go more in depth, I think we'll go with Rhino. However,
I think Gollum has been pretty good as a starting point for Shiny models.
Yeah. I mean, I'll add that I haven't because the dashboards that I'm building are really used by
a limited set of internal partners. I haven't really had to worry about things like Shiny
load testing or all of those kinds of broader things that you worry about when you build
an app that hundreds, if not your whole company of people is going to use. If I have three people in
my app at the same time, that's heavy use on the app on that day just because there's not a lot
of need for it. So the most complicated and business important app that I've built is really,
it was a way for me to have to not email four people, get four different versions of an Excel
sheet back and collapse it and then do analytics on it. I made a portal where they can go in
everyone with their login credentials, edit basically the Excel file, but in the Shiny app
through like an R hands on table format and save it in exactly the format that I wanted. And nobody
can move anything and nobody can change data types and it's great. But it's really specifically
to people who have those senior coding level credentials and there's like four of them
that support this audit. So I think for my team, business value is not measured in number of users
or reach of that app. It's really the fact that this saved us so much time and so much money
to do it in this way that like, that's the value of this app for my team.
Okay. A lot of love for R hands on table already. I was trying to find just like the quick
link to it. I'm not sure if that was the right one, but what does that actually do that package?
So it lets you click into a data frame and make edits and save those edits back out. So those
edits can then be re-redisplayed to the user. It's delightful. It's a little bit hard to learn
if you're used to maybe like a GT or a DT data table, but it's basically magical. You can put
this table in your shiny app and people can feel if you want it to, you can even make it green. If
you want people to really feel like it's Excel, you can, but you're basically putting this in
in your shiny app and people are editing it, but you can sit, you can say, this is a date data type.
This is exactly the date format that it's coming in. This is going to be a number. It's going to
have three decimal places. And when they hit save, that's exactly what you get back. And I have that
linked to our S3 storage solution. So every time somebody hits save, it's a separate record. Like
we can go back, we can access historical records. It's made my life so much better. And I think,
you know, building tools that make your own life better and then like spreading them to other
people is still a really valuable way to do work. I was just writing that down to save that quote
there. I can feel the excitement in the chat right now about people like just discovering
this package as well. And I need to look into it too, but it sounds like it would be really
helpful for the people who have this use case of they're working with business users who
still really want to use Excel and don't want to be interacting with a shiny application,
but maybe need to like download their own Excel data as well. Okay, cool. Yeah, it's great. And
then I'm not as comfortable with, I think it's tidy Excel, but that's one of the ones that
enables you to like, when you write your format back out to an Excel, you can bake in formulas.
Like if somebody says like, hey, I really need like this formula to come out of it for some
reason, not static data, like let's make it somehow dynamic in the Excel file that you're
writing. Like all of those things still work together, even through that shiny backend.
Awesome. Thank you. Regis, I saw you had a question in the chat. I missed it with all the
comments here, but if you want to jump in. Yeah. Let me turn my camera real quick. So I was just
wondering, Libby was saying, yes, so hopefully that's the case. So I've been, I've made a couple
shiny apps that require tables that have editing and the out of the box tables that you make,
and maybe Joe Chang is going to change this for future iterations of shiny.
But if you're on page 10 of a table that has a thousand rows, and then you need to change what's
in the table by default, shiny will reset that table back to the first page of the table.
But you, he has some extensions for the DT package where if you need to change something in page 10,
you can, I think there's a replace data function in the DT package. And I'm just wondering if our
hands-on data has something like that. So that if you're on page 10 and you're doing something super
fancy in our hands-on table, that it won't send you back to page one, which will drive
everyone using it crazy. Yeah. So there's, it's like part of the, our hands-on table offering,
but when you click into a cell, you can store that row and cell value. So that's one of the
things that I do with like the reactives and the callbacks is I store this, and then you can index
anything that you're doing based on that, or like send it back to pull up this page, pull up this
row, or any changes that you're making can be tagged with that cell that you've clicked in.
But I mean, when you, when you change it on the backend, the shiny side, the R side, and then
you push it back to the interface. Is there, does it make sure that it doesn't set the table that
it's displaying back to the first page? If you edit something on the 10th page?
I think there's probably a way that you can do that between your observers versus event reactives,
because observers, I think, execute all the time. So if you put your table render and then observe,
it's going to automatically go. But if you wait, you can save it and have it wait to re-render
until after you click some other button. So you can store all of that data and then not
render your table until you're ready. And I think you can also set it to render. If you save that
page, you can have it re-render on page 10. Oh, okay. So you can say this is the page to stay at.
Yeah. Not something that I've built directly, but I've seen some like pieces around doing
something like that. Yeah. And I think Jeff is saying use input DT row last clicked and rows
selected, but that's for the D. I mean, does DT and our hands-on table work together?
Do they work together then? Is that how? Because those are DT. Anyway, maybe we're getting into it.
I don't know. This is, it's a hangout. I don't know where the line is.
I'm seeing in the comments, somebody had recommended doing like a deep dive on this
topic. And I will definitely take that on as an action item and ask who from our team might be
interested. I think it's just something that so many people on data teams have to deal with is
like, it doesn't matter how powerful your backend is. If ultimately like the business user who maybe
has an analyst on their team who is maybe comfortable in Excel and can write some SQL,
like it doesn't, it doesn't matter if they can't interact with it as you're deliverable and not
everything that you deliver is suitable for an HTML markdown. Like sometimes clickable graphs
are what you need, but sometimes like people really like tables and people really need tables.
And so there, there are certain things there where you have to like meet people where they are on
data science. It doesn't do you any good to be like, well, have you tried doing it in R if the
person doesn't like even know what that is? So I think that's really helpful.
So I think that's really, really where I'm at on, on some of these things where I'm like,
I have no hate for Excel. Don't love it, but I have no hate for it.
Absolutely. Thank you. I know Travis, you had a question I think was maybe touched
upon, but I want to make sure we answer it fully. If you want to jump in here.
Sure. I know persistent data storage, in particular writing to data storage,
it's not always easy and shiny. Sounds like you're using S3. Good experience. I suppose,
like, I'm curious if you're using our hands on table, I'm actually really curious about the way
that someone would enter data into it and, and then send it to the, to the database,
I suppose. Right. Cause it's, it's generally easy to like report out from it and pull things in and
summarize them, but like sending stuff is harder, at least to me. Maybe you've solved it.
So we've solved it in kind of like two ways that we then work together. My team built a package
that helps us like handle our internal S3 credentials. So that the app has the service
account credentials. The app has access to S3 as part of like setting up our environment variables.
So that was the first thing that we did that didn't make it so that the individual user needed
to have the right S3 access to the bucket. And then I also, I'll say invented, nobody invented
this, but invented it for this app. We've got the submit button and we also have a save for later
button where in terms of just like naming these files, it's like, okay, is this done? Save it for
later. Every time you want to save something, you can, you can send it to S3 and it saves that
portion of data that I would expect regardless of what's in it. And it's tagged with that like
intermediate tag. And then when they hit submit, then it's tagged with that done. And what I
actually have as part of that interaction is in that display, when you're going to say, okay,
what rows do I need to edit? It brings that tag back in. So the user knows what's already been
changed. What are they like maybe still working on versus what are they comfortable with that done?
But really just like a, we've got it as a save RDS really from that S3 call, just save the RDS
because I'm the only one and my team who's going to have access to like, oh, hey, I need to know
what I did last month. I can go back and I can read RDS and write it to that, to that file for
that person. That's super cool for the S3 needs. Is that just on your shiny team? People that are
maintaining that back-end infrastructure? Do you have cloud support as well?
So we have, that's part of that corporate IT kind of centralized. They maintain our S3 storage.
So actuarial has our own storage. We also have like a broader sentine storage and things like
that. And the IT team is in charge of maintaining that. And as I said at the beginning, that's one
of the things that I'm grateful that I don't have to know how, how to do it. But I'm also very
grateful that the technology solution exists and that I have access to it.
Loving all of this table discussion here too. I did just want to share in the chat,
I just learned that Rich who maintains the GT package started a GT discord server,
which has been really helpful for people to ask questions there too.
Alan, I see you had asked a question in the chat. Do you want to jump in here next?
Yeah, this is super fun. I love when the chat is just like excited and everybody is,
is like enthusiastic and learning stuff. It's really, really fun. At the risk of like pivoting
away from that, Catherine, I'm super curious what your kind of day-to-day is like. We're
obviously like in the technical leads here and it's really great. What's the balance of that for
you with leading or managing or doing strategic stuff? That kind of thing. How much of that do
you do and what's your experience doing that as a leader of the, working with the team that you're
working with? Yeah. So I would say I'm pretty, maybe like 60, 40 leadership to in, in the data.
And I think a lot of that comes from the fact that I've been at Centene. I started there as
like a data scientist one, and I'm now a manager of a data analytics team. So a lot of the things
that I learned as a data science databases that I, as a data scientist databases that I got access
to things like that, where I'm like really comfortable with certain pieces of the job.
It's still really helpful for me to be doing because I can still do it reasonably quickly.
And all of that. And my team is also pretty small. I have two direct reports and my sister team has
three. And so together we're like a data science org of about eight. And so we're a pretty small
team. And so there's still a lot of need for like, Hey, can you do this for me really quick?
But in terms of like strategic leadership and direct management of my team, there's a lot
involved in, in terms of making sure that us as an embedded team stay up to date on what the tech
stack development looks like and where those tools are going to live. And how can we make
sure that we maintain access to the new tools and potentially transition processes, but also
keep support for these processes that aren't ready to be transitioned yet. So there is a lot
of that strategic leadership in terms of project maintenance, because when you're the actuarial
department of an insurance company, you can't just like not file a rate or not turn something in
into the government. All of this work still needs to go on while you're doing all of the
like forward initiatives with your, with your data science. So there's a lot of that. And then
I've personally been a lot more involved. I'm on the leadership council for our women in STEM
initiative. So there's a lot of that sort of, and, and our, our user group, but I kind of,
that's a given here on the R, on the R Hangout, but there's a lot of that community building
and reaching out to people that I've kind of incorporated into some of my leadership work of
a lot of things is like making sure, you know, that other teams exist,
which in an organization at the size of Centene can be really difficult. Just like,
oh, I didn't know that this team was doing this kind of thing with membership. I have a need to
do something with membership. Let me make sure that I know who to reach out to. And that's
something that we've been really working hard on in our next internal, our user group meeting.
And we're trying to do it a little bit in everyone moving forward is someone just highlighting their
team. And this is what we're doing. This is how we're using the Centene tools. Maybe it's not
always R, but it's just, this is how we're using our data. This is the data science that we're kind
of doing to keep those relationships built. Again, I think going back to something I said
earlier, like I did it for me, and then I'm more than happy that it's helping other people also
in Centene. That's great. Thank you. I really appreciate hearing that. Also,
I was curious also about your sort of journey to the role that you're in. So knowing that you
started as a data scientist, moved into and through the organization is also really interesting
to know. Thank you. Appreciate it. Yeah, you're welcome. I don't think my journey into data
science is particularly different from anyone else's on this call. I have an applied science
background. I have biomedical engineering and applied math, and I didn't want a PhD,
so I got a data science job. And I think that's a story that will resonate with many people on this
call. I want to make sure I get to some of the anonymous questions too. I see somebody had asked
on Slido, and I think it was when you were describing the Shiny app you created perhaps,
but it was, is this aggregated information across all suppliers provided on some de-identified way
to the public or all the suppliers? And I can copy the question. So it is not provided to the public.
It is anonymized, but it is not de-identified to the point of needing like HIPAA compliance.
So this is individual data that we get back. Summary results by state and potentially by
health plan are available at the end of the audit on the government HHS websites, but you would not
have access to this member level ACA marketplace information anywhere. Okay, thank you. Lisa, I see
you had just asked a question here in the Zoom chat. You want to jump in? Sure. I had to move
down to my first floor because our second floor is like a sauna here, and you know, I'm in Minnesota.
We've gone from winter to summer very quickly. Yeah, I was just sort of curious how your teams
work divides up maybe between like machine learning type tasks and then other, you know, reporting,
summarizing, presenting, essentially every other kind of data science work. And then like if that,
you know, do you feel like the organization or business sort of appreciates both
pieces of that work and does sort of like how much it's getting noticed and used kind
of match with how much time you're spending in each of those? I would definitely say yes to the
second part of that. My organization and my reporting pipeline very interested in those
kinds of like machine learning improvements, not just for the sake of saying that we're doing
machine learning, but for the sake of this is improving this forecast that we have or this
thing like that. We're thrilled that there are tools available to help us improve that. So that's
great. And then in terms of balancing the work, because we do have busy seasons with audit
conduction and then a little bit of downtime before we're back up on audit, we tend to do a lot of the
data science work during our downtime of audit because those are the things that make when we
do kick off the audit easier. But also during that time, we have a lot more less technical
business partners who need summarizations of that data. They need weekly reporting in a
downloadable format or a graph or things like that. So for us, we're lucky that a lot of those things
have been able to be automated based on the way that we're storing and accessing and running these
reports. But there's still plenty of need for like, I think, like I said, like, oh, we weren't
tracking that last year. Now we have nothing in place to track that because it's a problem.
And doing some of that scramble. There's always some of that data wrangling, data display
scramble when you run into a new issue. And then during our downtime, we bake that in
to models, to reporting, things like that so that we don't run into it next year.
Thanks.
Thank you. For Fariza, I see you had asked a question in the chat. Do you want to jump in here next?
Sure. I was just asking actually kind of what your tech stack is. So is are you running Posit
sort of in the cloud? Are you running it locally? The reason I'm asking the question is I'm from
Canada, also in insurance, but we have very strict rules around our data. So we've only been able to
stay locally for right now. So I'm just kind of curious how you ended up building it locally.
Yeah. So we have some of the Posit professional tools. We have the package manager and RS Connect.
I think we're currently running R in JupyterHub through that, but all of our data is on-prem
right now. And so our corporate centralized IT has built a lot of protections around
different environments where you can publish things and it needs to be approved through the
certain pipeline for PHI and all of that kind of stuff. So there are some heavy considerations with
publishing any information, even internally for internal use, going back to like not everyone has
access to the same level of PHI within this organization. So being really careful about
where that's displayed. Like I said, all of our databases are on-prem and then those different
environments that they've set up have access to different levels of that information.
Thank you.
And maybe if there is anybody else who's based in Canada and wants to comment in the chat
to help Fariza as well, feel free. Another anonymous question was, how has the push for
value-based care impacted how your risk adjustment is done?
So value-based care, for those who are not aware, is a method of paying providers based on
some metric of care value that they're providing. Whether it is risk adjustment capture, whether it
is medication management or whatever, it's usually a contractual arrangement with your provider. So
it's something not all providers are in value-based care arrangements. And that's not actually from
the grand scheme of government mandated risk adjustment. They don't care what the
government mandated risk adjustment, they don't care what your provider arrangement looks like.
So for us on the back end, that's part of plan design. So if we're going to say,
like these members can sign up for this kind of network within this value-based care arrangement,
there might be different premiums associated with that, different
aspects of the plan design that feed the risk adjustment transfers.
So what that comes down to in terms of risk adjustment is understanding
the population that is participating in that plan. So different people may choose to select
different plans based on their own personal needs on the marketplace. And so understanding
what is driving whatever subset of members to enroll in these plans is really where some of
the analytics that our risk adjustment actuarial team is doing, because of how you price it, how
you design that, then you come back and say, okay, well, what is the risk of these members?
Thank you. I think that we are not doing the best job of tracking some of the questions in
between some of the... Well, I see there's a lot of chat around Zelda and how hot it is currently.
Libby and I are both in San Antonio and it is hot. We're reaching like don't go outside season.
Well, I know there are a lot of great questions in there too. So feel free to just raise your
hand here on Zoom if there was something you had that we missed. But I see Libby,
you had a question about moving from individual contributor role. Do you want to jump in there?
Yeah, this is always like my most... This is the thing I'm most interested in always. It's like
you have moved from an individual contributor role to something that at least involves people
management, project management, like bigger stuff that might pull you away from boots on the ground
work. How do you feel about that? How did you feel about making that transition? And how has that
been? How did that come to be? I feel great about it. It was... I think it's something that fits
within like my personal evaluation of my own skill set. So like I was ready for that transition. But
I think one of the things that really helped me with that is like in my individual contributor
role, there were certain projects that I was wholly responsible for already. And so I knew
a little bit about managing that project, what was involved in terms of talking to the people.
So I was already doing that for myself. And then as I got promoted in my pipeline, I actually had
a really great leadership mentor talking me through how he was managing his team, setting
me up with like, okay, now that you're taking over this responsibility, these are my primary
contacts. So somebody really set me up for success in that transition into the people
leadership. Something that I've had to balance with myself is part of that of like, there are
certain things that I am very good at and I have a lot of experience with within Centene. But now
if I choose to spend my time doing that, that's time that I'm taking away from something else.
So balancing that, like I do need to train people to do this task because that's no longer my primary
responsibility is something that I've been navigating and trying to get better at, especially
during times when it's not like, hey, we need to turn this around in three hours. Because like,
if that's the deadline, I'm going to do it. But if we have 24 hours or even three weeks,
that's something that I can spend the time teaching someone how to do it right
once and then facilitating that in the future.
That's really helpful. Thank you.
Was there a specific point where you thought, okay, I'm ready to move from this
individual contributor role?
I don't think so. I think it was just something that like, my reporting chain was generally very
supportive of moving any people through the career direction that they want to go. And so as I went
from data scientist one to data scientist two, and my responsibilities grew, and I was feeling
comfortable, it was a like, hey, do you think you're ready for this? And I said, sure. And then
once you say sure that you're ready for it, you're going to have to be because now you're doing it.
And there's no room to be like, oh, just kidding. Let me, you know, please unpromote me. So yeah,
like, yeah, you, I felt like I was ready. And then as I made that transition, like my reporting
chain was still intact. And so I still had that support from the top down to help me as I learned
how to support the people that now report to me.
Something that's been hard for me is like when that career track doesn't already exist for
your role, like figuring out how to then go from individual contributor to a manager. And if it's
like creating your own role or finding a different part within the organization where that would
fit in as well. Yeah, so I think that's something we've kind of worked with our HR partners,
being embedded in the actuarial department. I think before I was hired in as a data scientist,
everyone in that work had to have actuarial titles, even though these were people not pursuing
actuarial credentials or anything like that. So there was a big push to say like, okay, we're
actually allowed to hire people with data titles into this role. So there's, it can feel like
there's a lot of like swimming upstream there because there is corporate inertia for it.
There's a reason that these orgs were built this way when it started, but having someone
who understands that like the corporate needs are changing and there's a need to hire people
with these different skills can be really valuable in designing that. And then like if
you're moving into a management position, but there hasn't historically been one, it's working
with them to say, okay, well, what do these job posts look like in other orgs going through the
whole process of, okay, let's just copy and paste that, but put it in this org, or maybe we need to
change what tools does this person have to know, but that's part of that conversation.
Thank you. Zachary, I see you had asked a question in the chat. There's stars next to it, so I'll read
it, but it was, how do you and your team generally keep track of all the R packages? For example,
we discussed so many even in this Hangout and also new packages that come out. There's just so much.
So we have in our bi-weekly team meeting, after we go around and we say what everyone's been
working on, what do they need any help with, we actually have a little slide that's called
R spotlight, and there's a web scraper that just runs, and it lists all like, oh, here's,
you know, what's from the new in this package is from the blanking on the name of that like R
weekly. I think it might be R weekly update. It kind of like scrapes that and just plops it into
our team slides for us, and so when me or the other manager have a little time before the
meeting, we'll go through that and kind of pick out the ones that we think we should individually
highlight, but even that, we've got some like keyword searches, but it brings it in, so it
always stays on our radar, even if you're not paying super close attention, and then we also
have within our data science community a couple R devoted channels, so if somebody's asking a
question about a package or about something that they heard, we can keep an eye on that and be like,
oh, okay, yeah, there's now been four questions about this package. Let's learn a little bit more
about it, so all of that to say, I think I kind of outsourced knowing everything that's going on in
R to the point that where it does filter to the top of my consciousness, that's something that I
actually, you know, should learn about. That's great. Thank you. I was just copying over the
into the chat R weekly as well for people to check out.
Greg, I see you have a question in the chat here, too. Do you want to jump in?
Yes. Sorry, can you hear me? Yeah. Take me a minute to get off mute. No worries. Yeah, so I heard at the
beginning you mentioned that if you get multiple requests for the same thing that you'll then,
you know, talk about building something that's self-service or an app or whatever it might be.
To keep track of all those, do you maintain any kind of, like, data analytics
roadmap or do you do anything to, like, assess the value of multiple requests? Yeah, so our primary
method for tracking that is actually we use GitLab and we have issues and epics and milestones
related to a lot of that and then can use the comments of, like,
God asked for this again, something like that to prioritize. We have been having to do a lot more
with value analytics in terms of saying, like, to prioritize our work because we've started getting
more and more as we've integrated with more teams, taken on more responsibilities
to say, like, okay, well, what's the priority for us and what's divorcing the
this is valuable to me and my team and would save us time versus this is what's valuable to
the organization and this is the amount of money that we will save or not spend or whatever if we
implement this is something that does require a little bit of tracking and a little bit of
we work with our corporate IT partners to say, like, okay, if we put this much data on this
storage solution, how much is that going to cost to maintain it in this way? And all of those kinds
of discussions that goes back to what are my responsibilities now as a manager versus an
individual contributor is having to think about stuff like that. But a lot of it is in terms of,
like, the multiple requests, it would be, like, we ran a report once and it was ad hoc and now
we've gotten asked for it a couple times. The code still exists and it's not a lot of ground
up development. It's just a matter of, like, putting it in the right spot. So like on RS
Connect and just scheduling it or something like that where it's not a huge lift there,
but it is then gets us more cred as, like, we've got another thing published and then you have some
of those other considerations about, like, login and PHI and stuff like that once you get it to
that point. So it's not no development, but it's not ground up. The ground up work takes a lot more
value prioritization. Sure. Cool. I appreciate that.
So is that a budget that you have to control, like the spend, the storage spend, for example?
I am not in charge of it, but I need to be aware of it. The person in charge of the budget
ultimately decides whether or not they're willing to spend the budget on the value that you've built
around your project. So making, not only gathering the value and determining it, but then
saying, hey, I need you to spend your money on this project. Some of it is our money that we
control, but some of it is corporate spend dollars for different aspects of IT development, technology
spend, things like that. So you have to come in and then they have their own prioritization for
projects and different other teams who have data science needs and technology needs, maybe they
need it today and I don't need it for two months. And so that kind of prioritization, then you're
like, oh great, I'm done with this. And then you have to, like, keep it on your back burner
for two months and not lose sight of it as it goes through that whole process.
Thank you. I see Bill had asked a question a bit earlier that was, do you have a corporate
structure with a distinct function which assures compliance with government regulations?
If so, does your team, sorry, it's a little longer question. If so, does your team, IT and compliance,
which could maybe be called QA and pharma, work together on your applications?
Yeah, so we do have, we have a compliance team, we have, so we have, like, government compliance
teams and then we also have, like, IT SOX compliant teams. And both of those things do
need to come together. There's code review, there's distinction of data access reviews as you go
distinction of data access reviews as you go through publishing these apps. So those
those teams are not married, government compliance and IT compliance, like,
officially, but both of those pieces have to come together in order to get something in the works.
I love what you said about making sure that you know other teams exist across the organization
and, like, figuring out what everybody else is working on. And I was wondering, like, aside from
the community event, how do you start to build those relationships or figure out,
like, in such a large organization, who you should talk to? I think it, it starts small.
Like, when you're, when you're really close to a data project and you, there's one piece that
you don't know. It's, like, shooting the email to the person that you saw last access that,
that database, because you can check those things. You can say, like, hey, I saw you were using this
data, like, what's going on with it? And so those kinds of small emails, and it's also getting over
that hump of, like, self-doubt of, like, oh, am I emailing the right person? Are they going to,
you know, hate me for derailing their day, for emailing the wrong person? And just, like,
send email, because the worst thing that happens is that they don't respond to you. And then you
send an email to, to another person and building that out. And then as I moved through into a
leadership role, it's getting plugged in with other team leaders, where they, okay, like, now I know
the name of your team, but do you have somebody on your team who knows about this or who can help
with this? And that's also something that, like, the women in STEM group has helped with, because
we have women in STEM across the entire organization. They are not just in corporate IT as
your cloud engineers, like, almost anyone with a data analyst title or anything like that could,
could count. And a lot of people in health insurance have those math backgrounds that, like,
I've been exposed to so many more people and so many more incredible women at CENTEEN
through, through that other organization that now I know there's, there's a new team, our member
insights team, brand new team, but I'm like, their, their manager immediately got plugged in with
women in STEM. And so now I'm connected to her on, like, both pieces. So it's really great
to be able to have that.
Yeah, I love that. It's a great, great community anecdote there. Like, it doesn't just have to be
the data science community where you are meeting all these other people across different parts of
the organization. Just want to double check with everybody here in the chat. I think there are a
lot of people who I think need to play some sort of game together, because there's a lot of talk
about a certain game. But just want to make sure there were no other questions that I might have
missed. Okay, one question I love to ask for my own knowledge here is, if you think back to your,
your career, and as you're getting to got into your role now, is there
a piece of advice that kind of comes to mind that you received along the way,
or a favorite piece of career advice that you've ever given?
I think it's something that even coming into this meeting, where I'm like,
I'm great. And then I'm also like, oh, my goodness, what if people find out I'm not great?
That sort of imposter syndrome of just like, let people believe in you until you can believe in
yourself, where it's like, no one's giving you opportunities that they don't think that you can
do. Because everybody's looking out for themselves. So even like, I've given that advice, I give myself
that advice, because it is like, let, let other people believe in you. And I think that that's,
that's something that makes the most difference. And it comes even back around to like,
if you think you're, you're doing okay, like send that email to the stranger and hope that they can
help you with, like with your data. So it's just like, yeah, you probably have a lot of
you probably have the opportunities that you have, because you earned them.
I absolutely love that. Thank you so much, Catherine.
If people want to get in touch with you, is the best way LinkedIn?
It is, I am not generally super active on posting on social media, but I am a scroller. So if you
reach out to me on LinkedIn, I will get it. Awesome. I just put it in your LinkedIn there
in the chat as well. And it will be up with the recording on the data science hangout site. But
thank you so much, Catherine. This has been a great conversation. And thank you for sharing
your experience with us all. Yeah, thank you for having me.